In the first thousand words you're likely
to learn in Chinese, you'll see the image
of meat again and again.
Not just meat, of course; you'll also see
bone, blood, fur, and all kinds of other images
that aren't vegan.
What's surprising, and slightly amusing, is
how often these images have nothing to do
with the modern meaning of the words in question.
The character on-screen will definitely be
one of the first thousand characters you learn
in the language.
It has a very broad meaning, similar to the
English word "indicate", and its meaning changes
quite a bit in context, as you see with this
example.
What is it a picture of?
Well, if you learned the modern meaning first,
you might be shocked to learn that it's supposed
to be an altar --and, specifically, an altar
for animal sacrifice, with blood running down
the sides.
That may seem like a huge leap of interpretation
for a symbol that's only composed of five
lines, and (as you can see) the meaning isn't
entirely obvious from the seal-script, either.
However, when you look into the history of
what the word formerly meant, and its links
to other characters, the explanation starts
to become easier to believe.
The character on the right hand side here
is linked in meaning to religious ceremonies,
and it depicts the same altar, but this time
with two extra symbols above it.
The one on the top-left is the meat radical,
a symbol that you're about to see with several
variations.
The symbol on the top-right is a human hand,
easier to recognize in the seal-script than
in the modern form.
So, when we put the pieces together, we have
a hand offering meat over an altar --confirming
the theory that the basic symbol we're discussing
here isn't just a religious altar, but is
specifically an altar for animal sacrifice.
In the middle of the screen here you see the
meat radical in its modern form with the ancient
seal-script on its right-hand side.
You can see, clearly enough, that the complex
image of the meat above the altar does preserve
the same original pictograph, although it
now appears in various forms.
Here you see one of the most common changes
in the way the meat radical is drawn: the
picture of a bear on the left side of the
screen here does, in fact, have a piece of
meat in its mouth.
I know that it's hard to believe that this
is an image of a bear, and it's even stranger
to think that the symbol for meat has now
become identical to the symbol used for the
moon, but... the bear is, in fact, walking
around with a piece of meat in its mouth (although
it might be more poetic if the bear were carrying
the moon).
Just this one example will probably remind
you of the image of the moon in a number of
the most common characters in the language,
and if you now go back to take a second look
at them, you'll discover that they're in fact
depicting a piece of meat.
As with most of the world's languages, the
verb "to have" is one of the most commonly
spoken words in Chinese, and the character
really does depict a hand holding meat.
Some textbooks will actually lie to you and
encourage students to imagine that it's a
hand reaching out to touch the moon; as romantic
as that may seem, it isn't the real etymology
of the character.
Here's another character that's probably going
to be on the list of the first 1,000 words
that you learn.
Again, you're left to wonder if you're looking
at the moon, or if you're looking at a simplified
form of the meat radical.
The clerical script, seen here, doesn't give
us too much of a hint.
In the seal script, however, we can clearly
see that it is "meat" and not "the moon" on
the bottom half of the character.
So, as you can now imagine, the whole language
is full of both visible and invisible meat.
In some cases, we know the history of the
character clearly, and in some cases it's
a bit of a mystery.
There are still debates about the character
on the left hand side of the screen now (and
of how this came to mean the color green),
but there's no debate about the character
in the middle of the screen: it does indeed
depict roasting dog-meat, although the modern
meaning has nothing to do with dogs, meat
or roasting.
Finally, the meat radical in the character
on the right hand side is especially annoying
for vegans, as that is the same "fu" sound
that is in the word "tofu", so when you're
looking at the ingredients for vegetarian
food, you're often stumbling over the meat
radical.
There are enough Chinese vegans now that I
have seen attempts at spelling reform, to
get around this problem of meat ingredients
appearing in the written names of vegan food.
I doubt that anyone has made an index of these
changes in how written words appear, but I've
noticed a few examples on menus and store-front
signs so far.
In this case, the reformed spelling of the
word removes the "egg" from the compound word
meaning "cake", however the second half of
the word still includes the image of roast
meat: specifically, you're looking at a lamb
or goat roasting over a fire on the right-hand
side of the character.
Given the strange history of Chinese language
reform, you can ask yourself what's next:
so many characters were changed in the 20th
century (and sometimes for ideological reasons)
that it certainly isn't impossible that we'll
see the meat and blood disappear from a few
characters in the next hundred years.